
![](pics/fscrs.png)


# eGov Testing Machine Manual



## The eGovernment services

The Autonomous Province of Bolzano currently offers important digital
services (for eg, online applications to start businesses, pay
property taxes and initiate e-Payments etc), the number is expected to
increase as eGoverment services continue to grow.

The FSCRS project intends to contribute to the creation and
improvement of eGovernment services through an innovative process that
verifies and tests functionality. The underlying idea of the project
is that the accessibility of digital public services is necessary to
increase the innovation potential of the region. .

The project takes its name from the Free Software Client Reference
System, a specific reference system (OS + defined set of software
applications) that during testing simulates a user accessing the
services.


## The eGov Testing Machine

The expected result is the development of a systematic, auto
validation process, currently not available on the market, which
allows the testing of eGovernment services without the manual
intervention of an operator

The eGov Testing Machine can be thought of as a virtual group of
people, sitting at the computer and using the eGov services and
checking if they work properly, allowing the local Public
Administration to test eGov services on a daily basis that are being
offered to all citizens.

## Software Overview

The Testing Machine is currently made up by Virtual Machine Manager (VMM) and documentation on how to wite, execute and automate tests of eGov sites in particular but also other softwares.

### Virtual Machine Manager (VMM)

VMM is made up by bash scripts that let the user manage various
virtual machine software in a general way. See the VMM manual for more
information.

### eGov Manuals

Writing tests of eGov sites is not hard but we believe that some help
will still be useful for most people. The manuals and guides provided
together with VMM make it possible to test eGov sites automatically
and unattended.


